
# A Beautifil Random Walk 

TL; DR: I am a glorified internet crawler with human taste

I have noticed for quite some time now that I sometimes use the web in a different way than most people. A normal person might Google a question they have, or use AI to answer it -- and don't get me wrong, I do that too. But unlike most people, I find joy simply exploring the web. There is something unique in walking randomly with pure curiosity, opening doors, sometimes bigger doors to bigger rabbit holes, maybe even splurge on a book. Think about all this virgin territory there is to explore, all the hidden gems there are to unearth, the twitching nerd in me going ballistic just thinking about this right now. And while I call this a random walk, it is certainly not random. The process is simple:

Find a good link --> See if it links to any other interesting places --> Explore

I began my random walk in high-school. I was taking a programming class as part of my studies; me being very interested in programming, I began watching YouTube videos on the subject and building small projects along the way. At some point, I found Casey Muratori and George Hotz videos, looked at their websites and tried to see if there was anything interesting. From there, after a while, I got a link to Val Hovey's blog, and finally the 777-page monster: Godel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid by Douglas Hofstadter. The chain of events was completely random; I stumbled and explored each place for a different reason, on a different date.

Another case happened when I wanted to explore the reliability of programming systems. A paper, a blog, then a book. It's like magic. The result is similar to my interests yet unique in ideas presented. The book I found was Antifragile by Nassim Taleb -- another great book. The exploration can happen from mentions within a book, recommendations from people, not just from the internet, but the process stays the same: randomly walking.

You can think of it like exploring a graph of enormous possibilities using your curiosity. Each choice leading you through a different edge. Different people will choose different starting points or different edges to explore, and their worldviews expand in the direction they care most. That is _my random walk_.

I have gained more from this random exploration than what my immediate environment would have given me. My writing here is, in fact, something younger me would not believe I engage with. Much of my interests were formed along my random walk, and much of my knowledge came from there too. I know for a fact I would be a completely different person without my random walk. So I am thankful. Thankful for the internet and the web. Thankful to all the amazing people that I have found along the way.

I can't help but think about how lucky I am.