
Goals: 

    1. Find all places where there is not enough data to train an LLM (to 
    exploit for work) or data is garbage which does not allow for grokking or 
    some human element will prevent us from collecting the data for this thing 
    (e.g. Lithography, politics, handyman, so on...)

    Even better are jobs where you don't have a clear goal you can try forever. 
    Jobs where each action has very high stakes; standing in direct opposition 
    of verifiable cheep to change software jobs.   

    After you find them, think of a way to exploit this for work; making sure 
    you don't become the obedient slave for others (for many reasons).

    Answer(short): 
     Lithography - closed industry with little data, hard problems, unclear how many varifiable rewards there are
     Politics - People in power will find ways to stay in power, AI won't change that
     Handyman - Hard for robotics to replace because of dynamic job type. Nobody wants to do this dirty job so high earners are more willing to hire even if they can do themselves with the help of AI (instructing)
     Research - Problems are open ended. Knowing how to ask the right problems is very important, and that requires knowlege people study and work for their whole life. Solutions will be helped with AI and yet it does not remove humans from the job. The risk is different: will countries continue providing funding for research or will companies hire researchers to do what they do best.

    2. Read the hardware lottery. And I believe there is a interesting 
    connection and a thing to evaluate when looking at the insight Fabien gave 
    while reviewing Nvidia GPU architecture changes over time to fit industry 
    needs. 

    "With the release of Turing in 2018, Nvidia operated its "biggest architectural leap forward in over a decade"[13]. Not only the "Turing SM" added A.I dedicated Tensor cores, they also gained Raytracing cores. This fragmented design reminds of the Pre-Tesla layered architecture, proving once again that history likes to repeat itself." - [Fabien](https://fabiensanglard.net/cuda/)

    3. Find what might be a good way of going forward with life. 

    4. Think about how to find a girlfriend. 

    5. Ran a half marathon? (21km)

    6. Read https://jsomers.net/blog/william-james-advice and after finishing the book "Thinking Fast Thinking Slow" re-review what is written here with the framework given in the book. See how does it hold up and the reasoning behind every persons opinions. 


> "Society is steadily moving from a material goods society to an information service society. At the time of the American Revolution, say 1780 or so, over 90% of the people were essentially farmers—now farmers are a very small percent of workers. Similarly, before WW-II most workers were in factories—now less than half are there. In 1993, there were more people in Government (excluding the military), than there were in manufacturing! What will the situation be in 2020? As a guess I would say less than 25% of the people in the civilian work force will be handling things, the rest will be handling information in some form or other. In making a movie or a TV program you are making not so much a thing, though of course it does have a material form, as you are organizing information. Information is, of course, stored in a material form, say a book (the essence of a book is information), but information is not a material good to be consumed like food, a house, clothes, an automobile, or an airplane ride for transportation. The information revolution arises from the above three items plus their synergistic interaction, though the following items also contribute" - Hamming, The art of doing science and engineering 

Re-read chapter 2 of the book and, formulate the right question about our future with AI. This is especially important since grokking is 
a real phenomenon, showing real promise of generalization of even current architectures with more compute.


past religion : we are special because of we were made in gods image
todays religion: we are special because we can think / do what machines can't do
future religion: ????

Like what fiverr's ceo said in an interview: "actually dig deep down inside and rediscover our humanity and what makes us different" 
this is exactly the need for a new religion
His solution: "everything collapses into judgment, like like this is what we have." 
what makes your story? what makes you you? 

In other words: any information, any experience we have is what creates our judgment and that, most likely, is what we should believe in from a philosophical point of view. From a more practical one, 

But like anything in life, the way the rich accumulate power is through their power and in the age of LLM's and AI this means companies burning money and compute to get specialized LLM's that give them an advantage over everyone else (since you don't have access to their resources). This is the way that as has always been true in history the rich will become richer, offer better things that allow themselves to differentiate from the masses. 


The Eileen Gu Process: (Journaling and processing of internal deep/non-deep thoughts) 

What does bring me joy in life???  Long horizon not ephemeral shit like dopamine for sweets or games and shit
    - I remember when running with my friend at base, the feeling of achieving what I though was impossible for me - 10km run, was incredible.
        The feeling of your body hot, wind blowing, heart pounding, sweaty pants running, mind zoned in and another 2km to finish has this sense of accomplishment I never felt before. For marathon distances+ it seems what people are trying to do is find themselves the Goggins way. 
    - Friends (doing things and being stupid for obvious reasons)
    - Learning new things - Surfing / Coding / Reading / etc.. 
    - Building projects? This is tough. I think that having something that you have built realized and useful to oneself also 
        has this sense of accomplishment, but, doesn't hit like running does. This is most likely is tied to project size and time spent. 
        Spending years one a project vs one month or two surely had a different effect on the joy of the accomplishment. There is also the fun 
        of it's creation but idk hard to measure this like with any surrogate activity.
    - Trekking/Extreme sport/Adrenaline AMAZING!!!! best thing ever 10/10 can recommend. I don't think I can truly express how good it is. 
    - Love? Hard to say.. as you become dumb from love you kind of lose any rationalist thinking so yeah. Also it might be too ephemeral to tie
        my life around it 
    - Obsession and work? Working at base I was obsessive with some projects and work in general. This was so extreme I was just thinking 
        about work all of the time. I don't know if it brought me joy though. I can't really say what was the benefit. I think I just wanted 
        with great enthusiasm for this thing to work. It might be more of an obsessive nature than joy though they are somewhat interlinked so 
        I really wanted something. I got obsessive about it. I overworked myself. I finished I was happy for like 30 minutes or I did not finish and I did not care to much. Feels like surrogate activity 101 though, I can't say for sure. 
    - Taking care of others you enjoy the result ( because you drive meaning from this )
    - Play - the learning or social with friends type or fun physical, not all consuming addiction type


Themes / Abstraction 
    - Meaning (work, learning, running (can be achieving a goal)) aka (goal, effort and attainment of goal, and autonomy)
    - Physical needs(Food, Love, Some sport like running(feeling alive)) & Adrenaline/Feelings (the good kind, no the one with consequenses aka PTSD) which yeah

From the unabomber: 


From this what might be my goals in life???

36. Nonattainment of important goals results in death if the goals are physical necessities, and in frustration if nonattainment of the goals is compatible with survival. Consistent failure to attain goals throughout life results in defeatism, low self-esteem or depression.

37. Thus, in order to avoid serious psychological problems, a human being needs goals whose attainment requires effort, and he must have a reasonable rate of success in attaining his goals.

39. We use the term “surrogate activity” to designate an activity that is directed toward an artificial goal that people set up for themselves merely in order to have some goal to work toward, or let us say, merely for the sake of the “fulfillment” that they get from pursuing the goal. Here is a rule of thumb for the identification of surrogate activities. Given a person who devotes much time and energy to the pursuit of goal X, ask yourself this: If he had to devote most of his time and energy to satisfying his biological needs, and if that effort required him to use his physical and mental faculties in a varied and interesting way, would he feel seriously deprived because he did not attain goal X? If the answer is no, then the person’s pursuit of goal X is a surrogate activity. Hirohito’s studies in marine biology clearly constituted a surrogate activity, since it is pretty certain that if Hirohito had had to spend his time working at interesting non-scientific tasks in order to obtain the necessities of life, he would not have felt deprived because he didn’t know all about the anatomy and life-cycles of marine animals. On the other hand the pursuit of sex and love (for example) is not a surrogate activity, because most people, even if their existence were otherwise satisfactory, would feel deprived if they passed their lives without ever having a relationship with a member of the opposite sex. (But pursuit of an excessive amount of sex, more than one really needs, can be a surrogate activity.)

41. For many if not most people, surrogate activities are less satisfying than the pursuit of real goals (that is, goals that people would want to attain even if their need for the power process were already fulfilled). One indication of this is the fact that, in many or most cases, people who are deeply involved in surrogate activities are never satisfied, never at rest. Thus the money-maker constantly strives for more and more wealth. The scientist no sooner solves one problem than he moves on to the next. The long-distance runner drives himself to run always farther and faster. Many people who pursue surrogate activities will say that they get far more fulfillment from these activities than they do from the “mundane” business of satisfying their biological needs, but that is because in our society the effort needed to satisfy the biological needs has been reduced to triviality. More importantly, in our society people do not satisfy their biological needs AUTONOMOUSLY but by functioning as parts of an immense social machine. In contrast, people generally have a great deal of autonomy in pursuing their surrogate activities.

Paragraph 41 assumes that " surrogate activities are less satisfying than the pursuit of real goals " yes does not provide any evidence for this. The whole argument of the author hinges on this being true! Everyone should probably seek what is their answer if surrogate activities are truly less satisfying than real goals.

64. It seems that for many people, maybe the majority, these artificial forms of the power process are insufficient. A theme that appears repeatedly in the writings of the social critics of the second half of the 20th century is the sense of purposelessness that afflicts many people in modern society. (This purposelessness is often called by other names such as “anomic” or “middle-class vacuity.”) We suggest that the so-called “identity crisis” is actually a search for a sense of purpose, often for commitment to a suitable surrogate activity. It may be that existentialism is in large part a response to the purposelessness of modern life. [12] Very widespread in modern society is the search for “fulfillment.” But we think that for the majority of people an activity whose main goal is fulfillment (that is, a surrogate activity) does not bring completely satisfactory fulfillment. In other words, it does not fully satisfy the need for the power process. (See paragraph 41.) That need can be fully satisfied only through activities that have some external goal, such as physical necessities, sex, love, status, revenge, etc.

66. Today people live more by virtue of what the system does FOR them or TO them than by virtue of what they do for themselves. And what they do for themselves is done more and more along channels laid down by the system. Opportunities tend to be those that the system provides, the opportunities must be exploited in accord with rules and regulations [13], and techniques prescribed by experts must be followed if there is to be a chance of success.

TODO(ziv): Check in the book The Political Illusion by Ellu the connection to his idea of the people wanting more and more of the state allowing it to control more and more of our lives. The thing I am trying to figure out is the psychology that leads to this. Why are we drawn into this cycle of wanting the state do more for us thus allowing it to have more and more control of our lives.

Also I feel like paragraph 67 is outdated for today. If I feel like I don't trust my doctor and don't find security in his words, I can easily ask a chat bot and it will give me an answer most people just take as truth and put 100% of trust in. Even if not 100% of their trust, you can easily google information and read up as much as you want to feel in control (sometimes you really are). 

Paragraph 68 though is very much relevant.






These are my unprocessed thoughts on some matters, they are not well written; these are not meant to be well written, for they are the raw crystallization of my thoughts. If you do end up reading this, please note that my thoughts change constantly and yet, this text does not. It is fragile by nature so please think and review whatever you get from here.


Article on system design. This should include the following: 

Essential properties of designing systems which will not change. 
Handling Complexity of systems
Handling Invisibility of code
Handling Cost of building and using systems
Handling Changeability and evolution of systems 
Handling Conformity to interfaces, features and more 
Handling Designers bad culture and trade-offs (during bad times)

NOTE(ziv): Rethink about the history part. I quite enjoy writing about it and jet I have not found that it is useful for much yet. It does not serve the articles but hinders it. Both in my time and in effort writing it first. I believe it deserves a separate article which will be more fun to write. That said, there is an important component of economics and history which I will have to explore just not as thoroughly as I initially wanted.
- History
    As a species we got here today in a marvelous way which we should remember is a miracle. Held together by the social structure, and effected by the local, global states of the industrial revolution. Like all biological creatures we know of humans came from the great biological soup of molecules inside our home called earth. While all other creatures had better defenses like shields to protect them or offensive ways of attacking using fangs or venom, humans came on top using a more lethal weapon under the name "Intelligence". We with our squishy minds have came and changed the world. We can move faster using cars, move more weight using machines, and form a hive mind of telecommunication network of sharing of knowledge and experience. The squishy things advancement knows no bounds. We live in a global hive mind where values of people change, times change, and as the saying goes "Hard times create strong men, strong men create good times, good times create weak men, and weak men create hard times". This saying I believe is a major creator of bad design, bad rules which people follow and low quality goals which they try to achieve. In much the same way Goodharth's law which is crucial in understanding how human over-optimization causes bad things, and how randomness helps mitigate it's bad effects. 
- Meaning  (This is something that I need to think about quite a bit more)
    The essence of everything that we build is it's meaning. If we know where meanings comes from we can look for it. We can see it more clearly and allow us to express our design with more intention and vividness than we would have been able to. This is a precursor to complexity and compression both which rely heavily on the meaning the systems carry.
- Complexity
    Complexity is a measure for how intertwined is a system. Complexity is bad for a system when it does not capture it's essence, yet it is good when it helps drive intent of a system forward by capturing the whole space of possibilities we might want. Now what do I mean by that? 
- Compression
    Compression is the art of distilling information and therefore meaning. Compression as we explore it can be seen as a useful mechanism for determining complexity, though you have to be careful in using it on superficial things like code length, which seemingly are correlated to complexity yet outliers exist, think of Conway's game of life where immense complexity is born out of a very simple program. There is a phase change where some things beyond some complexity make immense turns and the states they posses explodes. This type of behavior is normal and should not be ignored and instead used for our benefit. This is a powerful mode of thought which I will explore (think about language and how it uses simple meaningful words and rules, to capture a seemingly unlimited space of meanings we want to convey). The type of explosion of state is something I will have to name and capture it's intent. And maybe expand a bit later on. 
- Constraints 
    Constraints form the basis of any design. The set of solutions to the problem at hand can be interpreted as a shape. The shape of the solution that best solves the problem at hand is one which best fits the constraints given by the problem itself. Constraints by themselves are formed using trade-offs which the designer manages to again best fit to the shape of the problem. 
- Abstraction 
    This topic is one which should serve as a basis for most of my design principles since it is tackling one of the biggest problems engineers face worldwide. And I should spend much time thinking and writing about it as possible since I have much to say but I don't currently know how to say it.
- Component-Reuse (Across many disciplines)
    This is the continuation of abstraction and should be treated as such
- Invisibility (Accidents, Unexpected Behavior)
    We must remember that the things we create have real world effects, and safety of systems must be considered when designing them
- Evolution (Changeability, OpenSource)
    Any system we might build will eventually need to adapt to the new circumstances the world puts forth we must tackle this problem (as it should help understand how systems must be build to accommodate change)
- Conformity (interfaces, features)
- Education (Knowledge Fundamentals, Mentorship)
- Institutional Decline (Effects on us)
- Programming is very much like writing anything. You can have an idea of how something should be but only as you implement the system itself is when you actually materialize everything and make sure that it can work. Holes in your thinking are patched, kinks and past assumptions are resolved and the final product is almost always different than what you might have began with. This is also why programming is so hard as your plans almost never go smoothly requiring you to find all of the ways that failures take effect. 
- can we learn from biological systems? Antifragile systems it is.

For years now it seems humans have been the dominant species on this planet. Organized together in weird structures, held by stories and powered by intelligence; humans seem to defy all logic by surviving great calamities, adapting, and growing stronger from these experiences. For as much as I would love to jump into the meat of this article I believe, to appreciate it fully, it is important to remember the challenges we as species had to overcome to get to where we are.

# History of our kind

The first homo-sapiens were hunter-gatherers, roaming large areas around without attachment, gathering mostly scarce plants that managed to survive the cold climate. These times were marked by their climate instability and hostile environment for food growth and development. It likely human potential for progress was held back to a degree by such environment. Around 13,000 years ago the world entered the Younger Dryas period, a millennium-long cold snap that temporarily reversed the warming process experienced since the Last Glacial Maximum[^1]. Around 12,000 years ago the Younger Dryas ended and the Holocene, the current era, began. Climate stabilized forming the climate patterns we know today. 

The effects on plants has been dramatic. Randall Carlson in his essay "Redemption Of The Beast" reviewed carbon-dioxide and its effects on the biosphere. In his essay he looks extensively at the effects carbon-dioxide can have on plants since plants are fundamental to all living organisms. He kindly points out that with the effects of a hotter planet, more stable climate, and larger carbon-dioxide reserves, in the last 11,000 years plants experienced a period of growth and health. Recent data from NASA's satellite imagery shows the world has become greener[^6] mainly from carbon-dioxide fertilization. These macro changes beginning 11,000 years ago have most likely prompted the world wide domestication of different crop types in different parts of the world, with grains being notable for humans development[^7]. 

> If we consider why the human population has never been as great as the present we are lead directly to the realization that for most of the time that modern homo sapiens sapiens has occupied this planet, the Earth has been in the grip of the brutal cold of an ice age. We know from recent history that times of global cooling have been detrimental to human population growth and times of global warming have been conducive to population expansion and social advancement. [see: Redemption Of The Beast, Randall Carlson pp 80]

As time went on nomadic groups moved into agricultural settlements. This shift marked the agricultural revolution of the time; humans began spending a large portion of their time and effort onto cultivating a small food variety (wheat, corn, rice, potatoes, millet). Although we know that humans shifted from gathering their food to growing it, the choice at least for those times seems illogical. Cultivating wheat is no easy matter, ancient farmers had to work the land removing rocks and pebbles, watching out for any worm or bug that might infect the plant, or hungry animals waiting to eat their precious food. Watering is important along with fertilizer for land constantly sucked out of minerals. So much time was spent cultivating wheat, settlements formed around farmland, anchoring humans in place. Yuval Harari in his popular book Sapiens shows us the perspective of the wheat at the time. For wheat a fragile plant had become a growing empire taking over the world by frenzy with fields and fields made out entirely out of wheat. Utilizing dumb humans to expand beyond what it would ever be able on it's own. How were we fooled? What did it offer in return? By growing their food, humans had a larger surplus of the food they were so keen on eating; for humans are greedy in demand, growing their population and narrowing their buffers, humans had to keep growing more, as there was never enough food to feed all the new faces and less food meant certain death. Wheat allowed population to increase from a hundred to hundreds and even thousands using this moving wheel, yet keeping the population dirt poor for long [see: Yuval Harari, Sapiens pp. 87-89 (Hebrew version)]. 

> Human history as a whole has been characterized by a seemingly inexorable trend toward higher levels of complexity, specialization, and sociopolitical control, processing of greater quantities of energy and information, formation of ever larger settlements, and development of more complex and capable technologies. [see: Joseph Trainter, The Collapse Of Complex Societies pp. 3]

With the population increasing at a steady pace, societies steadily got more complex. Complexity as I will now define, has a similarity to general complexity, simply flavored in a social context. Much like what Trainter did I will define complexity using two key terms, inequality and heterogeneity. Inequality refers to the differentiation of ranking, or unequal access to resources. Heterogeneity is the number of distinct parts to a society. Simpler societies had steadily decreased inequality as they increased in heterogeneity. 

Complex societies of those times were still relatively simple in modern terms. Leadership in the simplest societies tended to be minimal. It is personal and charismatic, and exists only for special purposes. Hierarchical control is not institutionalized, but is limited to definite spheres of activity at specific times, and rests substantially on persuasion [see: Service 1962; Fried 1967, Political Systems – An Introduction to Anthropology]. This stands in dark contrast to our current institutionalized and legalized reality where states rule. Trainter touches upon this uniqueness after reviewing simple societies throughout history, in his book "The Collapse Of Complex Societies".

> The citizens of modern complex societies usually do not realize that we are an anomaly of history. Throughout the several million years that recognizable humans are known to have lived, the common political unit was the small, autonomous community, acting independently, and largely self-sufficient. Robert Carneiro has estimated that 99.8 percent of human history has been dominated by these autonomous local communities (1978; 219). It has only been within the last 6000 years that something unusual has emerged: the hierarchical, organized, interdependent states that are the major reference for our contemporary political experience. [see: Joseph Trainter, The Collapse Of Complex Societies pp. 24]


rewrite and rethink: - "
From ancient construction of Gobekli Tepe, to the Great Pyramids, and today's large marvels like the Burj Khalifa, seemingly magical constructions were enabled by constant innovation in design and technology.


[^1]: https://www.haaretz.com/archaeology/2021-11-22/ty-article/study-reveals-how-end-of-ice-age-led-prehistoric-humans-to-settle-down/0000017f-efac-df98-a5ff-efadcc2b0000
[^2]: https://randallcarlson.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/The-Redemption-of-the-Beast.pdf
[^3]: The Origin of the State: Land Productivity or Appropriability? by Joram Mayshar, Omer Moav, and Luigi Pascali
[^4]: Sapiens - Yuval Harari
[^5]: https://gwern.net/doc/sociology/2022-mayshar.pdf
[^6]: https://www.nasa.gov/technology/carbon-dioxide-fertilization-greening-earth-study-finds/ 
[^7]: https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/economics/staff/omoav/mmp_15_nov_2020.pdf


In the recent times computers have risen they quickly became integral to human life. We rely on carefully manufactured pieces of sand to help us do almost anything imaginable. Forming a cloud of tiny devices surrounding us; tiny superpowers we can use. We communicate long distances with our phones, make online purchases on our computers, entertain ourselves using our TV, research using computer models and so much more. Much in the same way cars assist humans in going further distances faster and unlocking opportunities otherwise deemed impossible computers allow us to make computations faster, augmenting all aspects of modern life.

With time, cultural changes and introduction to new words help designers talk about the dimensions of their design. One such dimension is complexity. "


*The lead:*
Complexity is a measure for how intertwined is a system. Complexity is bad for a system when it does not capture it's essence, yet it is good when it helps drive intent of a system forward by capturing the whole space of possibilities we might want. Now what do I mean by that? 

----
# Beginning - (Complexity)

Let us consider the inherent properties of this irreducible essence of modern software systems: complexity, conformity, changeability, invisibility, and culture adaptability.

Complexity. When we speak of complexity in the systems we build, the dimension we care about is from the simple to the complex and it's reverse. This dimension captures how interwind the systems we care about are, as their parts interact in multiple ways and cause non-linear, emergent behavior. Simple system therefore have parts which can be isolated from the rest, changes to one part does not effect others, no unexpected ramifications or unwanted side effects.

A simple analogy can be made when we look no further than the making of bread. In the process of making bread, the doe is usually split into smaller parts shaped into strips and braided before it is finally baked. Splitting the bread and braiding it is not required as bread can be baked braided just as well as a simple lump of doe. Notice how I said that doe has a simple shape while a braided doe does not. If you think about it for a moment, after braiding bread the doe strips interwind and after finishing, reversing this process becomes difficult. If you had put the two strips one next to the other pulling one causes no effect on the others, meanwhile, after braiding pulling a single strip without effects on all others is impossible, you would have to carefully consider how each line moves about it's surroundings as it slips around moving up and down, hopefully not tearing the rest of the doe apart.

The ideal system we build should have complex behavior with a simple intelligible implementation, allowing us to benefit from the behavior we want avoiding the downsides of a complex system. To create such program you would have to compress all of the behavior you want and translate it into the shortest program which is capable of satisfying it. 

This is hard to achieve since any parts similar will be made into one and marks complexity to be an essential property of software systems.

> Software entities are more complex for their size than perhaps any other human construct, because no two parts are alike (at least above the statement level). If they are, we make the two similar parts into one, a subroutine, open or closed. In this respect software systems differ profoundly from computers, buildings, or automobiles, where repeated elements abound. [see: Brooks, No Silver Bullet pp]



For this reason when designing and building a system we should look to simplify the complex behavior into a implementation. For doing this there are three approaches we will explore:

- simplifying requirements 
- splitting requirements into smaller parts
- increase requirements to capture more behavior than you need

For many engineering disciplines this complexity manifests itself the repetition of similar parts. Designing todays electronics is a prime example of such repetition where many components have been standardized. 

Title: avoiding common pitfalls

Invisibility. Just like finding a single pasta strand in a bowl of tangled pasta mess complex systems tend to be harder to modify then their simpler equivalents. Software is unique in this space as the increase in its complexity is invisible. When building a car you can see clearly when an engine has more parts and is more complex then it's predecessor. When building software you can't notice when the program has become significantly more complex. Most programmers use line count as a measure for complexity but it is only a partial measure. A 10,000 line program which does nothing but print 1 is less complex than a 10,000 line game. The simple fact that software complexity can not be meaningfully measured using a high quality property means that programmers can't know what to look for. What more is even if we have a metric like loc (lins of code) it's effectiveness deminishes over time because of goodhart's law. Tinygrad is a great example for how goodarths law effects metric based programming. Even if we count the lines in a vertical fashion in the tinygrad project horizontal space has become extremely important to utilize and dense. To a large degree this is a way that people optimize for line count while not doing the actual job of simplifying. It's a easy escape. This is what we want to avoid, and can't seem to be able to unless, of course, someone can see through this trickery and strive for the goal of simplicity. Chasing metrics is not the solution, what we need is a new culture.

[^1]: https://kristoff.it/blog/simple-not-just-easy/
[^2]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LKtk3HCgTa8

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kolmogorov_complexity

This post aims at explaining the essential difficulties of software design, providing good theoretical and logical basis for my ideas. It also aims at explaining what are some good tactics and why do they work, along with work frames for how to think about and work on software entities. It should serve as a central post containing aggregation of available information on software design that I have encountered.

# Meaning (maybe more examples?)

The world is full of meaning that we try to decode and convey, but what is meaning? If you look around during the day the world seems colorful and bright; full with sights, sounds, that bless your senses. Just imagine walking on the lush green grass near a great blue lake, gazing at the trees while hearing the water going down stream; you notice a musical chirp of local birds as you advance forward, light dance off puddles near. You stop at the sight of a purple flower with a butterfly sitting atop, amusing yourself, you wait til the flower is left alone, crouch to smell it's odor, and happily laugh as your senses are filled with nature's beauty. 

I want you to pause and reflect on your actions now, you might have noticed your brain had made up a visualization using the words written on your screen. Or at least  it could have made them if you wanted. It is incredible that your brain can translate words in such a way but, what if you did not know how to read English? You would not be able to visualize what this text tried to convey. What if you had no text at all? In that case you would again find yourself not visualizing and instead continue doing what you were doing previously. What if you were born in prison and never allowed to see natures beauty? The words in this text would pass through you as though they don't exist. In this sense, the text offers a foundation upon which you, the reader, brings it to life. Meaning, then, shifts between content and interpretation in back and forth motion, requiring both the correct content and interpreter for meaning exist. 

In his seminal text Godel Escher Bach, Hofstadter states that meaning itself is a strange dance between content and interpretation. For meaning to be found, content, which by itself meaningless must be interpreted. When standing on their own, content and interpretation are not in-fact not fixed; they are interchangeable. GEB illustrates this by imagining a world where DNA is similar to all organisms and the decoding mechanism is what makes them unique. For example a cat and a fish would contain the same DNA, but the hotter/colder environment is differentiates between them. The genetic information would then not be contained in the DNA but in the decoding mechanisms themselves. The fact that the decoding mechanisms for life are similar while DNA varies is what makes DNA the content and decoding mechanisms the interpreter. 

Hofstadter expands on the subject by showing just how complicated the dance can get. Our conciseness as he sees is a strange loop; a loop in which the physical reality serves as a platform upon which everything stands. Neurons pass signals which effect thoughts we have, and thoughts we have effect the very same neurons that made these thoughts. The full meaning of our thoughts then, is contained both in the neurons that cause them and in the thoughts themselves, constantly rotating between levels of self-reference in a "strange loop". The philosophical implications of his strange loop is not a subject I will discuss, yet, I wanted to illustrate the complex mechanisms by which meaning can arise, and the depth of this subject as explored in GEB.

# Compression

Complexity -> gas model (physics) -> entropy information theory -> compression 
Physics -> entropy -> complexity -> compression

I need to talk about compression since I need to explain how that relates to the design of systems. So I need to relate it to complexity(how to measure and what is it), abstraction(compressing code leads to generalization and abstraction), resilience/redundancy/degeneracy(looking at compression to help understand the properties, though maybe not), beauty(what is good code), machine learning(compression serves as prediction as it generalizes data, or maybe I would talk only about generality and then about machine learning as a emergent property of generality, idk), philosophy (as it is interesting). 

What I want to say is the following. When abstracting, you compress the meaning of your program by finding commonalities and putting them behind a slim interface for reuse. I will call these interfaces the "basic blocks" of the program. These basic blocks are your explicit distinction and announcement of intention for the block of code you put behind an interface to be used throughout your code. Making sure that this one can be taken apart and reused the most is important for none messy programs. Think about the following: let's say you can do one of two things when you build your next program. You can first design the whole program and it's interfaces, and then fill these interfaces with the corresponding implementation. Or you can build a simple working example and naturally find the basic blocks that best fit the nature of your program as you implement it. By going with the former, you decide on the structure early and may sacrifice the ability you have to compress the program better and create cleaner and better fitting abstractions. You may by doing that create totally redundant operations. By going with the latter, you can better compress your program and better fit it to the problem at hand. It is also the case that when abstractions are hurriedly made the details that you hide may come back to bite you if used incorrectly. 
 
( I need to find good examples for these things ) 

maybe I should call it a rigid vs fluid approaches
Two ways of approaching code: centralized and decentralized. The centralized approach means that you first outline the program structure and it's main components and then you fill in the details. This is a centrally planned program where seniors pre-plan everything leaving only the implementation details to fill. A decentralized program is one where the program structure is decided by the natural addition of code as one sees fit into the structure as a whole. At first you might be at a loss as to how the result would look like. As you continue onwards you find more and more about the problem and what might look like a good solution. To do that you first implement a rough program which is capable of delivering a working program but not good enough for all of the constraints which are imposed on you. With time as you learn more, the structure becomes more apparent and less and less changes are applied to it.





For systems we design one metric we often hear about is complexity. But, to understand what is complexity and how can we measure it, first need to know how to extract the meaning behind information we possess, in other words compression. 

Complexity, Entropy, Compression. 

Compression is the art of distilling meaning to it's very essence. To compress well, you have to ask yourself what is truly necessary and what is superfluous. By it's very nature, when compressing, high frequency information is discarded and low frequency information is prioritized; details are left out generality, come fourth.

When looking into any large system the term "complexity" naturally arises. The term in this post is used to describe how interwind the systems we care about are, as their parts interact in multiple ways and cause non-linear or emergent behavior. Simple system by that definition have parts which can be isolated from the rest, changes to one part does not effect others, no unexpected ramifications or unwanted side effects.

Although we have defined complexity as such, in different fields the meanings of the term complexity differs. Since I will be slightly touching upon information theory, a clear distinction of terms must be made. 

Entropy is ... 

Complexity, on the other hand, is a measure of exactly how much talking you must do in order to describe a given state of a system. In information theory a common way measure complexity is called Kolmogorov Complexity. 

Going back to the subject of system design, and our original definition of complexity as the interwindness of a system, 

Warren Weaver's thoughts on Disorganized Complexity and Organized Complexity: 
Disorganized Complexity is a system with many many disconnected parts, operating in random yet, their chaotic interaction is predictable via probabilistic computations. e.g. Fluids, gas, most physics where many particles are involved. n the other hand he saw Organized Complexity as a system where the interactions between all the parts are anything but accidental. The internal interactions of the systems parts allow for the coordinated system to manifest global properties not carried by it's individual parts. The emergent behavior these systems exhibit is a property of the system as a whole. e.g. Markets as the system with people all around the world as the parts in the system; the biological process of life from DNA in a molecule soup to a living being or a self-organizing living systems. 


with the next subject being Abstraction which uses compression & meaning.
In information theory


Compressing as a measure for complexity? 
The ultimate theoretical compressor is Kolmogorov complexity of a program.
Complexity is a measure for how intertwined is a system.

Different ways of looking at systems holism/reductionism.

Language itself is a compact description for the set of all valid sentences. You have letters which are meaningless, words which contain meaning and yet have limited meaning, rules for how to form sentences and you have sentences built out of both words and rules which are meaninful on their own. Infact, language has many interesting properties because of the huge set they create verses the small description required. The explosion of the set of meaningful valid sentences which you can get from a relatively small set of words and rules, is what makes language so powerful. 

Compression will forever stay an art as it is uncomputable. The problem can be restated as finding the shortest description of a program that can produce a file which, in our case, is equivalent to arbitrary data we want to compress. When restated as such, the problem is equivalent to finding the Kolomogorov complexity of said program, which hits the same wall of the Halting Problem.

One more interesting thought on compression. If we know that taking some initial state and some rules of inference are infact the shortest program for a problem, and it is the compressed form of all the states possible by that program, we can by state that it is isomorphic to a formal system. Formal systems are known to have truths which are not inside the formal system. 

If we know that the most compressed form of anything is the shortest content and a interpreter which generates the wanted result, we can say that anything that is compressed that way is a formal system. 

On a philosophical note, Stephen Wolfarm published A new kind of science in which he directly states that his new science is looking at the universe as a formal system. In much the same way that a formal system has truths which it can not state, the universe does not seem to ever reach a state which can be true but will never happen. This might be like looking at a green sun. The chemicals which will enable the sun to produce green radiation are likely never to occur in large quantities in the sun to produce the result. But the rules which the universe seems to be based on, suggest that a green sun can happen in the universe it is a "truth" and yet we will never see it. This, along with my first line of thought, suggests to me that the reason why Stephen has found the concept of irreducability when studying cellular automuta is because he when trying to compress the results from his experiments, has found himself stuck at a seemingly impossible problem. The same same level of difficulty as finding the answer to the Halting Problem. 

Another concept introduced is isomorphism. The term refers to the equivalence of meaning in two formal systems given by their consistancy when compared. e.g. Imagine you want to cook a couple eggs for breakfast. You first go to your refrigerator, take 2 eggs and put them on the counter. Since 2 eggs are no enough you return to your refrigerator and take 3 more. You then count how many there are on the counter and you find 5 eggs on the counter. Now you have probably already known that taking 2 eggs and adding 3 more eggs would result in 5 eggs. How did you know that? The answer is that you knew that the formal expression 2+3=5 is equivalent in meaning to the counting of eggs. Since you have learned this from a young age you are capable of computing the result easily. This equivalence or should I say isomorphism is a powerful concept which allows us to take the meaning of one and apply it onto the other. The real world is the only thing that is meaninful, since we live in it we give some "inherit" meaning to things in the world. In our example, the counting of eggs being a real physical action has meaning, while some expression we made up has to "gain" meaning by isomorphism as we say that the action of counting 2 eggs and 3 eggs is equivalent to addition of 2 and 3.

Another example of this split would be a image compressor. A lossless compressor can have many ways in which it can encode an image to compress it's "meaning". One way would be to give them a smaller representation based on statistical frequencies. So a pixel whos color is more like to show up will take up less bits to represent. This scheme would allow any one who wants to decode the message simply decode the compressed message by replacing compressed form of pixels with their colors. Another scheme for compressing the message could be to do a simple counting of similar pixels and grouping of them together. This would in-fact make the algorithm on the decoding end, contain information it did not contain before. It now knows that pictures contain many similar colored pixels one after the other. This type of information we can not deduce from the message itself. It is unique to the encoder/decoder scheme which we propose here. This unique information is exactly why the information of a message might be contained in the message passed as well as the decoder which decodes it. 

Compression is strangely connected to intelligence. With the advance of modern machine learning techniques, research seems to suggest that there is a correlation between how well an algorithm can compress information and how well it can make intelligent predictions. In a recent research paper, researchers demonstrated a new technique for word similarity test. They built a metric based on the compressed length of strings A and B along with their concatenation A + B. Doing so is roughly equivalent of doing a cross-entropy comparison of the two strings. This along side kNN clustering algorithm has shown very good results when compared to classical machine learning approaches, some of which are quite advanced, beating such algorithms in certain circumstances. 

Some are great proponents of this idea and have laied out a prize. The Hutter prize is led by...




A systems complexity might be characterized in a number of ways. One would be the Kolmogorov complexity. The definition is the minimum program which required to represent a string. From this we can inquire that a more complex system is one who's parts are all unique. For if they are not unique they can be compressed and represented more compactly. This is the main argument for the "essential complexity" of software as Brooks defined is No Silver Bullet.  While it is correct I feel like some aspect is forgotten. Some software while seemingly significantly smaller are more complex than their large counterparts.  Why might this be the case? I believe that it is because of how inter-wind the
parts that make up the system are.

Think of the economic market we live in. Each person is making seemingly simple decisions regarding his daily life buys and sells. And yet the markets is so complex there is almost no hope for ever being able to accurately predict it's chaotic behaviour. The interactions themselves might be simple but the sheer amount of even simple decisions and tendencies make the economic of a country seem like it's own entity and require very high level theories of how it works.  It is just impossible for us to understand the economy on a high level without approximating some of it's behaviour. This approximation is what abstractions are all about in software and in theories in general. 

There are popular approaches for thinking about complex systems. The holistic approach says that you must look at the whole in-order to understand how it works. The reductionistic approach says that you can break the system into parts until the system is understandable. These approaches try to approximate the general system by ignoring the details. This seems to be a natural human behaviour. We are not capable of reasoning about all of the details while looking at the bit picture, for this reason we just ignore them. Sometimes the details leak through our abstracted view of the system which break our understanding. 

Biological systems seem to contain endless amounts of complexity inside their inner workings and yet they are capable of changing and adapting better than any system we humans can design. This is going to be a very large premise into the idea that we can learn from biological systems and try to achieve their positive characteristics.

Another aspect which GEB book has touched upon is how the brain compresses the information which it holds. It seems like symbols that we use to convey meaning though are connected in many ways. Think of the word home which is connected to a building and a place to live in and your home and so on. There are infinite ways to connect between symbols and our brains seem to give weight to the connection importance. The weight assigned to the connection between two symbols will determine the likelihood of the brain to make a connection between the two symbols. You can think of it like a path of least resistance is formed for strong connections of symbols which is what forms opinion and knowledge in our brains. That said, weak connections with enough conviction can become stronger and strong connections weaker. The space of possible connections is never lost and instead is morphing to accommodate changes knowledge and update it's belief system. This is part of what I believe makes the brain so strong and anti-fragile with respect to knowledge acquisition and retention. 

This makes me think that if we can make some program where the space of possible solutions to the problem is large. We can have a dynamic weight system for solving it. For example if a plain needs a auto-pilot control system which has full control over an air-craft. We would like the output space of possible outcomes to not be too constraint. Think of a unexpected plain loss of engines and or extreme situation which the plain has not expected before. Humans have the ability to adapt to this situation with their ability of understanding the situation they are at and can think of a plan to get out of the situation. Machines on the other hand do not have such general capacity. To correct for this reality we would have to create a system which is capable of solving more paths than we plan the plain on taking. The space of possible maneuvers can be seen as the entire space, and we won't subtract the space and instead apply a weighting to the paths we would want to take. With of course the common paths having strong weights which lead to their solutions; uncommon paths with weak links should be saved for a time where unexpected things are in need of resolution. Constant updating should occur to strengthen and weaken links according to the result which we see from the data we get back. 

This system should create a highly dynamic path resolution algorithm which is also very very large in it's memory footprint. But for what it's worth, there might be some merit to this exploration of the theoretical in practice. This is something which I would have to look for myself, and report the results for in the future. Do common machine learning tactics work in a good enough manner to solve this type of problem or do we want a completely different approach. This is something which concerns safety of many passengers and if we decide to take it how to avoid accidents while developing? There are so many of these questions of operation which I can't think of fast enough while type on and on. Though this is the case I still firmly believe that there is some merit to this exploration if only to think of how such systems which don't compromise the space of solutions and instead assign weights to it and follow the path of least resistance to reach the resolution it would like to take.

--- (rethink the following it is kind of shit): 
One more approach would be to accept more inputs than are needed for a single problem. If you are familiar with programming, you might have heard of operator overloading. This is a simple concept to follow. Think of operations that you can do to mathematical primitives like addition of two natural numbers; subtraction of rational numbers and so on. The language supports overloading the same operator which you would use to primitive types onto different types. The programmer can choose to add two Pizza structures if he so wishes and make an addition operator which would "add" two Pizzas. This feature allows for the acceptance of different input into the same known code paths. For example if you would like to have a function which does some permutation on some data that you feed it and returns some results in integers, you may also want the same functionality be done on floating point numbers instead. You can use a generic type and feed it whichever type you want and expect a correctness of behavior be retained.



## Software complexity

===== checkpoint
Today software can be characterized by it's never ending complexity; projects know no bounds with ever growing requirements. Constantly changing feature additions, changing interfaces, and different people with skill sets that differ 

When searching of whom to blame, the current economy stands tall shining over all others. In much the same way as computers today have become complex entities, software seems to take large strides towards ever growing complexity in their design. The psychology of this phenomena I believe to be quite simplistic. When given the option, people rather have a fast complex chip than a slow simple one; simplicity and good design don't sell. Since people would rather pay for features than bug fixes, this all leads the culture we have to day which promotes the faster building of software entities, ever large requirement list, and lowering the cost of initial building of said entities. In a workplace which doesn't promote and pay for high quality people to build design good software you will not find quality; in a culture which doesn't promote the creation of simple stable software, these qualities will stay absent.

Project Oberon by Nikolaus Writh, has been an attempt at fixing years and years of neglect.

the endless growth of complexity of software. For some this complexity is manifested through bloat. Applications that take gigabytes of storage space to install, and hog available resources. While for some applications much of its 
size and resource utilization is high due to its nature, for most I would say, this is not the case. Complexity also harms the cost of maintenance. Adobe has made maintaining and adding features it's software a technical nightmare. Old 
bugs and crashes haunt Adobe Premiere to this day[^1] with no saving grace in sight. 

[^1]: adobe link to people talknig about how much it suck but it also can't change

How do we handle the complexity of the programs that we create? 
    - Refactoring
    - Rewriting
    - Abstraction 


# Abstraction

Abstraction is itself a method of compressing the meaning of the parts that make up something into more understandable, approximate meanings which hide the complexities under their general description and method of abstraction. In programming when you are using abstraction you are essentially compressing code you use into reusable parts, with names which describe their general function to allow for first, understandability within the system and second, reduction in complexity of having to know all of the underlying choices and instructions that make it up. The benefit to using abstractions is great which is why abstraction is used effectively everywhere in engineering. Chip design uses abstraction to describe the sub components used to create the whole computer. You begin with transistors, continue with gates, logical units and more complex systems. The underlying abstractions are clear. They provide us with a powerful way of using understandable components using minimal need of understanding everything that was taken to built, and yet having maximum effect of usefulness. When sketching parts for a robot, you have a set of abstractions built into the software. You first build the parts that will make your robot. Then, you build the sub-assemblies which when put together into the final assembly will create your final robot. This way of using abstractions makes the creator of the robot not have to constantly have to think about the individual parts, and instead shift focus into the bigger forming assemblies which make up the bigger assembly. At every level of abstraction, you lose some ability of configuration but gain both the re-usability and conceptual understanding of the parts which make up the final robot. 

Abstraction is useful for humans because we find it easier to deal with abstract concepts than with many simple details. Would you find it easier to think about how each an every ant in a ant colony interacts one with the other or just simple behaviour descriptions of the ant colony as a whole. Even if the abstraction lacks the accuracy of knowing all the details it is necessary as humans are not capable of dealing with them.  - rethink the sentence 

When abstracting you are essentially finding the basic building blocks which make up your program and are compressing the instruction into these basic blocks. This process of abstracting is best done continues since, if done beforehand when you don't know which basic blocks you would really need, you will eventually end up having to refactor basic blocks until you find that the state of your code is at equilibrium. With this in mind, we can see how systems which need a tailor made solution with strict design can be made up. A progression of simple instructions, which eventually find their place inside basic blocks, in a continues process of refinement leads to larger systems that make up the program, and a comprehensible well managed code. If you instead follow the reverse approach of first coming up with the large systems, basic blocks, and general design of a system before you write even a single line of code, you are essentially defining the structure of your code in a way that a slight mistake which you will make can cause large structure redesigns and time taken to refactor or redesign the system. This is of course assuming that the system is new and there is no already good known design which you can use. The web is a typical example of a known problem, with known solution which everybody uses. In such cases it is infact better to use already existing solutions that people have spend much time in finding instead of inventing the wheel all over again using the methodological process of exploration and refinement.

Though this approach is, by some, admired as the epiphany of programming. Since you can test all cases for failure, make sure that the program does what you intended it to do, and have somewhat of an understanding of what happens in the code. There are those who believe that in some cases it might not be our saving grace, but instead a horrible mistake. Abstractions leak. Leaky abstractions are abstractions who's underlying decisions which made it up leak and end-up conflicting with the user of the abstraction. This is a direct result of the approximation the abstraction gives by leaving out the details and with them important decisions the user of the abstraction is unaware of. Attempts at thinking about and trying to avoid these leaks have been made. The proposal of meta-abstractions which are interfaces that allow the user to change the underlying details of the abstraction he uses to fit his needs have been made. An example shown is a virtual memory system made up of objects that manage memory as blocks. The policy of evicting memory pages is left for the user to decide using a meta-interface. You inherit the initial objects properties and then change the functions regarding the policy. Again this is a way which tries to bridge the gap between the details left out by the abstraction and the leak of the decisions made when the abstraction was made. The reason for why we care so much about leaky abstractions is because they are everywhere and because of the unreasonable effectiveness of code-reuse in programmers productivity. Reducing the cost of reusing already existing abstractions by bridging gaps in the abstraction is essential for good libraries and components common place in all software. With good ideas throughout the software industry history, there is a good reason to believe that understanding how to build better abstractions could help tremendously the building of the software systems of the future.

With the proliferation of software, software projects can now grow to immense sizes. With software being responsible for more critical systems than ever, and the cost of a mistake is high, it has become important for systems we design to be robust to failures. For that reason programmers have developed two different approaches for designing robust software. The most popular solution is to create provable or testable software where you can grantee the resilience of the software against a set of tests the programmer expects to be correct. This has the major benefit of changes to code that conform to the tests will make sure behaviour has not changed under these software changes. 

The compression-oriented programming Casey Muratori showes and Brooks top-down design techniuqe. I strongly believe after using these techniques myself for quite some time now, that I can explain both why they are so powerful and how come it feels so natural to use them over other techniques (like design first and then implement and so on).

The aspect oriented programming is a interesting paradigm that I think is worth to search further about. 
https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~gregor/papers/kiczales-ECOOP1997-AOP.pdf

Kruger's Reusable components and Software robustness have in them a similar section in which they advocate for the automatic search of different components that confirm to constraints.


# Code-Reuse

Reuse is of essence to all known design. In it's nature, reuse helps us reduce costs associated with the design and material production. When designing and eventually building modern constructions, we rely on known techniques, building materials, construction techniques, and more. Apartments are cloned across levels and sometimes to reduce costs even further whole buildings are copied across a neighbourhood. Here reuse is clearly visible in real life. Designs manifest themselves in a visible way which allow us to see when reuse happens. 


Seemingly good practices like code-reuse are over-used irresponsibly, with people including huge libraries for the use of a single function. Sometimes it is in search of a high quality library that implements something you are not an expert on.

It can be the community around the library along with the increase transfer-ability of skills across teams. Maybe you just don't want to maintain that part. These are the reasons one might turn to reusing code instead of coding it from scratch.

On the other hand, using other people's code means conforming to the constraints that the people who created the library had. Bigger libraries impose more constraints, and more libraries impose more constraints. If the constraints don't meet yours, you might end-up spending more time on adjusting your/other's code to make it work than if you had wrote it from scratch. And if you have invested too much into a bad library... too bad.

> it's fine if a library isn't completely perfect, none is, it's a time saver. you sacrifice a little bit of personal peace for the sake of getting some shit done or not needing to have the mental overhead of dealing with another person's crap. especially not a person or people who you can't directly contact...the maintainers are simply not my friends, they're not my colleagues, if i need LLVM fixed i cry, if i need any huge library fixed i need to go learn their BS along with the original problem space. if i need a feature added, i also cry. [NeGate, on [handmade-network fishbowl](https://handmade.network/fishbowl/libraries/#chatlog__message-container-1003003441322397797)]

Worst are the changing constraints. Usually this happens with package managers when updating dependencies. In general, package managers allow for quick download-and-use type of behavior with regard to dependencies, and easily updating dependencies. We can notice problems when a library author has decided to change the behavior or api of his library. The update will cause many programs dependent on that old version's behavior or api to break. For this reason, explicit upgrades to stable versions of software is preferred, rather than the more convenient automatic option.

We can see this in the [https://handmade.network/](https://handmade.network/)">handmade-community where single-header libraries are popular. e.g. [https://github.com/nothings/stb](https://github.com/nothings/stb)`stb_image` and `stb_freetype`. They require explicit upgrades, the ability to modify source code, and they usually do not have dependencies themselves. Along with the fact that single-header libraries are usually smaller, they dodge to some degree the more destructive nature of large managed dependencies while still bringing great value.

Sometimes you just need more than what people fit into a single-header library or you don't want to change the source code and instead just extend what is already there. This will touch on library design a bit. But it is important to know because if a library is [well designed](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5l2wMgm7ZOk/), then it will meet a much wider range of people's needs and won't become a large time-sink down the line if maintenance is needed in the code-base.



The important take a way here is when you buy into a big library, you sell some personal responsibility away which can be good... until things go wrong




When I began programming I had only the concern of making things work. Later at high school I was taught that I needed to "design" my programs before programming takes place, using UML like drawings I began programming in such way, designing the architecture of whole programs before I place a single line of code. The basic principle behind the idea was that design was much harder than the act of writing the text needed to make the design work. Of course later I found that this is nonsense, completely abolishing this type of programming style.




# Safety 

One thing that I was never taught or thought about was the safety of program. Until I read great article The Coming Software Apocalypse showcasing how the proliferation of software and how it quickly seeped through the cracks of everyday safety systems. From the elevator to managing water, cars, medical equipment and almost all critical systems today, software is at the bedrock of society. This placed large safety concerns since bugs in software are invisible. 

NOTES: We shall explore the problem of software safety using examples of real world cases: 

# Antifragile

This quality has many uses when you understand how it is isomorphic to so many things in this world. Taleb coined this terms and in his book through the various examples and many other things this quality and how to think about it in context to all other things. This is what makes it so impactful, it is the fact that it speaks volumes about general systems, and makes isomorphic statements about them. Through analysing biological systems, the good properties which the exhibit are ones which some of our systems would love to have. Understanding anti-fragility is crucial to having this view on the world on general systems. 

Size. Smaller means better for if a smaller unit fails, the failure will have a significantly smaller total impact. This along side the reduction of risk since you will be diversifying your "investment" in a single large system into smaller ones, which is known to be mathematically better[^].

Randomness. Antifragile systems like randomness. Randomness is the stimulus that makes Antifragile systems thrive while staleness causes the large failures leading to death. The greatest benefit of randomness is that you can not fool randomness. If you have a known schedule of things that you have to accomplish, and you plan beforehand everything in your day, you can cheat things that you don't want to do. If instead in a random day of your week something chooses for you to do whatever it is you don't want to do or remember to do, it will cause you to avoid the amateur mistake of optimizing it out of your life. Angifragile systems are highly dynamic by nature and stress or the lack thereof tells the dynamic system how to best behave given it's situation. Under this assumption generally lacking stress to make the system protect itself results in lack lastered protection and finally failure. 

A classical example of such over optimization can be seen in today's classrooms. To track the students progress teachers had to create a proxy measure for increase in knowledge. The test was invented to allow teachers to measure this progress. It is unlikely you yourself don't know that periodic tests done at a known date with students having enough time to prepare in advance, usually allow themselves to optimize for the test instead of learning. Humans like to over-optimize, when they have a metric to optimize for in this case their grades, they might learn for the exam a day before or learning at home without listening at classes at all. This is sub-optimal for the initial requirement of knowing the knowledge imparted by their teachers, but optimal to get good grades with the least amount of effort. This is the problem which is most commonly known as Goodhart's law. To mitigate this problem teachers can randomly test their students in surprise. This will not allow students to have the capacity of cheating or cramming studying. It will effectively become a significantly stronger measure which is the original intent. Here randomness plays a crucial role in making the measure become more robust to cramming and cheating which are common problems in tests.

Therac 25 accident had a similar case where the warning system constantly spit out non-understandable messages, eventually the operators optimized their for these messages mostly ignoring them. This seemingly innocent optimization caused a horrific accident exposing patients to orders of magnitude more radiation then allowed costing people their lives. 

Compression. Here I mean that antifragile systems usually are designed such that they have a explosion of states they can handle compared to their size. Their representation is compressed into a seemingly small footprint while being able to handle a very large state space. Think about language. English is composed of 22 letters, 170,000+ words, and rules to follow. The rules are sometimes hidden in the way we speak, not all are known and written on a piece of paper. Which explains the failure of common approaches to capture language in comparison to the relative success machine learning algorithms had in recent years. For the amount of words and rules, this is a relatively compact representation since you can represent using almost anything you might want in English. The small amount of building blocks and rules of inference create a explosion of states it can fall into, evidently this makes English extremely robust since you have many ways of saying the same thing using any number of words ordered in any way that follows the language rules. In this large space of correct sentences, we find properties which make language as robust as it is for conversation. Redundancy of words and degeneracy in sentences. 

Taleb believes the main reason for much of systems failure is caused by rare events he calls Black Swans. Black Swans are tail events which rarely happen and have disastrous repercussions when they do occur. These events cause such damage to systems that are underprepared that failure follows. But of course such systems stay underprepared for Black Swans specifically because they are rare. It is because they almost never occur that preparing for them is almost impossible. The solution is not to prepare for everything all of the time but to be able to take on any challenge by becoming anti-fragile. This is the main idea which Taleb is trying to convey in his book. For example, let's say you are a business men trying your luck in two different countries. In country F you go to a big building near the center of the city you live in. You enter the building and come to the office of your central planner. The central planner is THE GUY when you open up your business. He tells you that he will not give you your license since your .He gives each business it's license without which you can not open your business. The inspection process takes about 4 months after which you can have your license. Of course the central planner might approve or decline your business based on what he thinks. Sometimes even when large companies bribe him he declines on purpose great business ideas. Now for some reason he decided that 



---
# References
[^1]: Antifragile
[^2]: The book GEB - Godel, Escher, Bach 
[^3]: Brooks-NoSilverBullet





The next topic is unrelated to the rest of the text. I just wanted a place to write my thoughts that I had for some time now. For this reason you should ignore this section until I remove it completely.

# Economy 

Learning about economy and money in general has been, and still is, quite the journey. Learning about money, what are markets, government intervention, political strife, patterns caused by the forces moving the markets and the history from which these patters are formed allows me to understand the world around me better. There is no new information here just accumulation of my own financial understanding, and some thoughts that I have which are not interesting by themselves.

To make transactions happen in the past, people would trade commodities with other commodities. This made gauging prices hard, and trading in general not as accessible as could be. When money was invented, people could set a price for commodities such as food, utilities, and services using a universally accepted medium of exchange. In the case of the ancients it might have been wheat, gold or other precious metals, eventually making coins, paper money and digital money. The important thing here is that there is a universally agreed upon medium of exchange, even if when standing on it's own might be worthless. In the financial world there were 2 big inventions which changed the landscape forever. The invention of the banking system and investment institutions like Wall Street. The [origins of banking](https://firstutahbank.com/the-history-of-banking-from-ancient-times-to-now/) can be traced back to ancient Mesopotamia, around 2000 BC though, banking as we know it began around the 17th and the 19th centuries. With the invention of the banking system, the concept of money has extended. People could use something new called *credit* to pay for things they could not have been able to afford otherwise. The invention of credit allowed people and businesses to expand the scope of capital available to them greatly, allowing for greater economical expansions as money could be borrowed to facilitate the growing businesses needs. While the banking system allowed successful businesses to greatly expand their operations, it did not allow for great risk to be taken since it increased their risk for people defaulting on their loans (not paying back). For entrepreneurs who need capital to take big risks while expecting big gains the banking system could not provide the answer. For individuals the risk is also too high. Think of someone in the 19th century wanting to sail into the sea and find gold in another place. The risk taken here is immense as you could lose all of your large investment, although if successful, the reward would compensate you greatly for your risk. To minimize risk, the invention of shares with the rise of financial markets was invented.Now multiple people place their savings in entrepreneurs and risk takers to go and bring them profits. Shares of companies just represent parts of the whole, allowing many people to pour investment and reduce risk taken by any single individual.

Today transactions happen by the use of money or credit to buy goods, services, and financial assets. The price of goods, services and financial assets is calculated by the total spending of money and credit divided by the total quantity of these goods. Because the credit is used like money and is usually calculated as money people make the mistake in thinking that it is money. Credit is in-fact a contract between two parties where one has debt which is a liability that eventually needs to be repaid, and the another has an asset (credit). When the debt+interest is repaid, the transaction finishes and both credit and debt disappear. Since debt has to be repaid, markets follow a cycle like pattern. First, when credit is made a economic boom with it's great times ensues. When it is time to repay the debt as interest go up, the economy slows, causing a economic bust. When borrowing you are borrowing from your future self as evident from this cycle like behavior. 

There are 2 forces which influence the creation and removal of money in a major way. Interest rates and money printing. The central bank uses these forces to manipulate the creation and removal of money from the system.


During hard time where money printing is in order it is interesting to note the fact that the ones who gain the most are the rich people since they accumulate wealth that goes up in value. The assets which go up in value make the rich richer and the poor poorer since they can not allow themselves to buy assets and thus enjoy the same riches. The problem is exacerbating with time and a trend which will continue until a great political strife will happen which will seek to redistribute wealth. This is a trend which takes decades if not normally centuries to materialize yet, it is something which as Ray Dalio notes is part of a longer cycle which we are a part of.


# Productivity

I want to share a small bit of my experience with productivity. For quite the longest amount of time now I have been programming as a novice programmer building small projects that take at most a couple months to finish. Working on large projects has never been something I am good at. The compiler project I had built was done in many more months than would be required had I actually sat down and wrote it in a more productive way. What I mean here is that the way I was managing my time was quite wasteful. I could sit down all day and play or read or do anything but work. I had a strong believe or some might call it a sense that I was string progressing in a reasonable rate, or at least somewhat reasonable. Today if you are to ask me the same question the answer would be: "My time management was pitiful and the results showed me this fact". I was not that I had a bad project or anything like that. I was more that the things that I wanted to accomplish had taken such of a small scope in comparison to what I knew I could make. It was more of a self insufficiency more than anything else. In that project I had plenty of time, and I could reasonable plan my work to make something which I could be proud of. I believe that part of the problem for not accomplishing much was the fact that I had plenty of time. Your work is going to fill out your time, if you have 8 hours to accomplish something it will take 8 hours. If on the other hand, you had 2 hours for the same amount of work, you would most likely finish more work in these 2 hours then in the first 4 of the first example. The urgency I believe that is created is something no one should underestimate. 

After around a year which I took a break from programming, I returned and found out that I was very very slow in my thinking. Almost too slow even I would say as I spent an entire day doing almost nothing. The big revelation was of course setting a short time limit. I set a 15 minute time limit and saw my productivity shoot. The next day I set a 1 hour time limit still good results. The urgency for pushing through the times where you are unsure as to how to continue with doing something which will let you push into the correct direction has been the major contributing factor. 

Not only creating urgency of work is important, I have also found that reflecting our my work has done wonders in finding what are the things that I may be lacking and having some sort of metric for evaluating my work is what I should be concentrating my time now. That said we know from Goodhart's law that any metric we use as a proxy for the real goal would eventually grow old and become the new goal so I can't be sure this would end up so well as I would like. But I will report further when I learn more.

===


# Justice

As I think about it some more, actually the idea of exploring justice is more enticing to me than ever. This is because it would set me up for good action when faced with situations where justice is of great importance. What is justice? How do I know whether the actions of another are in-fact just or not. Does it matter? Should I be just? Should I be with people who are good and just or not? Can such people change? 

In Plato's Republic he notes that when comparing between ultimate justice and ultimate evil/in-justice we know that being the ultimate evil is more beneficial to the individual. The ultimate in-justice is fooling everybody that your control and benefit is good. A false king sitting on the throne benefiting, fooling everybody while not ever getting caught, is the ultimate evil. Since you never face the consequences. Whereas ultimate just would be just to everybody but might get screwed by the evil king even if just. So ultimate evil no downside great upside, ultimate just has great downside (lost reputation/money/more) and no materialistic or spiritual upside.

When bringing the discussion to our daily lives: cheating is often seen as evil. And here again, we can go into the just/in-just argument with great tools to guide us. A cheater that doesn't get caught is the ultimate evil. While someone who doesn't cheat is just. So again why should anybody be just when then can be in-just and get away with it? The common solution to why you should be just then is that you will get caught. This is a reasonable response but doesn't really cover the whole spectrum. What about when you don't caught. Does it not bring more upside than downside if you are a really good manipulator. This is probably why many people cheat. It is because they see the upside and don't believe that there is a great enough downside to their behavior. I also think that not only that but you can also see that they truly don't see this as wrong. At least when they do it. 

Here I believe that we can go into an even more philosophical realm of right/wrong and meaning. Where is meaning?  Content itself is meaningless. Just like a world in a foreign language sounds meaningless to you if you don't know the language. Yet the interpreter is meaningless too without content to interpret. Just without hearing words you can't interpret something thus gain meaning you want to get conveyed. So we know that content and the interpreter, standing on their own, are meaningless. Meaning can only be found in a strange dance between content and interpretation. 

If the meaning of anything is in the eyes of the observer just as much as it is in reality. Nothing is right or wrong fundamentally. The then only right action for dealing with somebody who sees the world differently and believes that they can cheat and get away with it is: don't be friends with such people, or, try to change their world. Since I don't believe that changing somebody's world is a easy feat, a practical implementation of an action here is just to lose contact with the problematic people. That being said, I do think that for some cases it is beneficial to seek changing someone's view of the world. This is the hard way. A battle which will have to be fought until one side is weakened enough that the other can force their way in. A battle for right or wrong; a battle with only one winner or two losers. 

One thing where we see that right/wrong can be interpreted differently depending on how you look at things is with climate change. For every individual action that we take in which we warm our food or house, make our electronics work, and use energy for the benefit of our individual needs we do so at the expense of climate change. So we can look at individual short-term benefits against global long-term benefits. The trade-off here is clear and something that we will manage in the future. 


# Vengeance

From seeing Naruto and reflecting on my life, it seems that the question of vengeance, returning eye for and eye, is not as simple as I once thought. If for any bad action that one does, you will return equally, the actions you both will inflict one one another will get worse. Vengeance causes more vengeance as it pulls more people into the cycle. Like a chain with a broken link, the upper part of the chain stays the same but the lower part which depends on the link follows it. In Naruto we see this in the form of killing of Sasuke. If Sasuke is killed, Naruto and his friends will not forgive the ones who did so and try to take revenge by killing them. If they succeed, the other party will do the same taking the other links in the chain with them into a cycle of revenge and vengeance. To stop this cycle you must be higher than these actions and find it in yourself to forgive the other side so the cycle never begins as it is hard to stop or understand other other side to stop the cycle. Stopping the cycle is hard because understating the other side is hard. In Naruto the character Pain is a great example of someone who has good intentions yet bad actions, making Naurto extremely hateful of him. Yet, by understating one another they have forgave one another stopping Pain's actions. The series shows us that there are many ways of achieving peace. Yet, not all paths are equally as likely to succeed; for some ways are fundamentally more reasonable towards human nature than others.

When looked in a more general case: wars between nations seem to have similar yet slightly different cause and effect. For nations what is important are their internal and external interests. The reason for war is usually less emotional at the start but always very emotional when war erupts, since this is what makes people move. As is the case in the Pele pone Asian War, the Athens and the Spartans went to war not in response to allied countries provoking on another but the growing threat Athens posed on Sparta and the reverse. Of course that was only in the beginning. Near the beginning of war, emotion took over causing hate to sprout; allied forces joined in the effort putting fuel to fire, causing the more allied forces to join, and commencing the war effort. It is through this benefit thinking orientation leading to emotional hate making everyone to pick sides and eventually fight each for their cause, that war comes into existence. 

Both sides believe they are in the right. It is a fact that for each on their own, they have in their minds full rights to harm the other for the pain they feel. I for example have fully seen what this is like in the recent war in Israel that began on October 7, 2023. Israeli's had felt like it was fully justified to kill many Palestinians for the horrible actions that a few took. In a day or two Ham's managed to kill more than a thousand Israelis; a mortality rate not seen in years and years of small specialized operations in Gaza. Ham's was of course planning for years this operation of theirs. They for reasons which we might not fully understand have choose to hurt Israel in a grand way which was not seen in decades. For them the decision was natural, they want to eliminate the Zionists. On the other side, the pain people felt was real. The fear people felt was real. Reality hit Israel hard and people were emotional. Their friends died, whole families burnt alive, babies were killed, relatives were on the verge of death, houses burnt, and the sound of gunfire was loud and clear. War was a result of heightened emotions incurred by the Hamas operation and of course each side only thinking about their own pain.

At the beginning of war when the severity of the situation was not understood people were afraid and scrambled to stabilize the situation. Many civilians rushed to the army to join the efforts of repelling Ham's militants from the Israeli border. 

# The timeless way of building 

The author believes that today we build lifeless buildings. Buildings that don't have a fire or a quality to them to bring our souls to peace a quiet that we desire. He thinks that the methods and disciplines we have today are what binds our thoughts and ways to create such lifeless creations. By first understanding the method and then shedding it, is how he intends to make us not only understand but also follow the timeless way.

chatpers 1-3 what is the quality? and what is it not?

alive, whole, comfortable, free, exact, egoless 

I believe that what he means in the quality is that he wants randomness of the human guide. He does not want complete chaos for it lacks the quality and not complete rigid structure for it also lacks the quality. Insteads the author ops for slight randomness of humans guided by a structure that one follows. The structure only acts as a guide for the final deisions is always upto the effort and needs of the human who want's his "dream" or so called feeling which he will impart with the structure. 

The quality is alive in that it make us feel alive in them, whole in that they don't contradict the vision of the man who made them, comfortable for they are made for real people who seek comfort which is not absolute, free in it's form to take any shape that we wish to impart it, and yet exact in that some structure must be upheld for some regular shape to take place instead of chaos, it must carry thoughtfulness which makes things work towards some benefit instead of just existing or even destroying. 

I for myself can say that I felt this quality in a wooden house in the north where my family for a couple years went on vacation there. I remember how warm the house felt, with the green grass complimenting it's nature; the cozy feel which is given by the screaching sounds of wood when walking and the scenery of mountains when looking outside, the grapevines growing on the sides of the main walk way and the calmness which the environment had as it was peaceful. All these attributes contributed into making a kind of quality which I had not felt from any other house I had been to.

I also remember the feeling of a shabat in Liam's house. The large table near the kitchen had a very largness to it which made it feel like a large family (which they are with all the guests they had yeah..). I remember at Yoni's house the tall ceiling and the long table which had some comfort and largeness of life. Along with some simplicity to it's interior design.

chapters 4-6  the quality lies in the events that happen in a place more than the place itself, yet they can not be separated for they effect each other. 
The roads that we use to get around, the parks that we use to communicate with our friends, and so on... these are places where the events that take place in them are helped by the environment which they occur in

quote: "A building or a town is given it's character, essentially, by those events which keep on happening there most often." chapter 4, page 66

chapter 7 when every small atom of a village has the quality only then the holistic bigger village contains it too (as everything amplifies this feeling)

chapter 8 the problem with modern building is that each part is modular and eventually the same whereas nature gives the similar patterns yet never two exact ones (trees are never the same although there are many trees, same with leaves and so on..) 

In much of the same nature that history doesn't repeat by rhymes he wants our buildings to rhyme not repeat one another.Not only that but also you have to consider the fact that the materials which you choose to use are going to effect positively/negatively the anti-fragile process of evolution of your house. If you are going to use unbreakable materials to preserve everything you will not have the ability to change anything with time. Nothing will crumble and ask for replacement, nothing will cry for death to be reborn anew. 

chapter 9 there is no way to achieve the quality in a human made design(far too complex) but by the generative process of creation where trial and error are accepted (just like designing code) 

The author understand that for the natural growth of a building/town, you have to have many individual parts which work together yet are each autonomous on their own. Some parts can be mistakes and die while others are a great success. The nature of such of a planning is that it should be anti-fragile by nature of how it is allowed to grow. This also means that you can't have only artisans and architects help design and build all the places we want, we must have the many people that live and interact with their environment to find the right structures with the nameless quality, because otherwise you just don't have enough autonomous people who care for their surroundings to make the process work as intended. But these people who we add should be allowed to make small changes to the whole and usually defined to what they can easily access and change (their own house, garden, so on..)

chapter 10 here we learn about the language which is used to build in the timeless way. The language is of fundamental information about the environment and rules which are applied based on it. The author wants us to understand that his language is isomorphic to some formal language. This is important because it shows us how it is built and how to follow it. Built from the constraints of the environment and rules which experience shows, the language takes shape allowing the same variety and complexity which you would expect out of a formal system, which means that it compresses well and has many pathways which you can take. This is just like any formal system highly anti-fragile for the combination amount is very high while the fundamental maxims which you work with are very few. 


chapter 11-12 this language is fundamental. everybody follows a rule of thumb (which means that we constantly make assumptions and have prejudice for certain actions) and this is why some things are so repetitive (which is not all that bad if understood) so make sure you have good rules of thumb and that you follow through with them. 

quote: 
Architects are responsible for no more than perhaps 5 percent of all the buildings in the world. 
Most buildings, streets, shops, offices, rooms, kitchens, cafes, factories, gas stations, freeways, bridges... which give the world it's form, come from an entirely different source. 
They come from the work of thousands of different people.
They come from the decisions of administrators, hardware store-owners, housewives, official building department, local bankers, carpenters, public works, departments, gardeners, painters, city councils, families ...  [ pp 200 ]

NOTE: look at a picture of the shrine Ise, in Japan 

chapter 13 the language which modern buildings are created by, is one which does not produce the fire which we want. The wanted language which people had in the past has been broken down. The language of the past is one where the people who used it also experienced it. Most children knew how to generally layout a house even if not build it, they also had their experience with it since the lived in their houses. Language like that had the benefit of benefiting of evolution of ideas where failing  ideas would be discarded and winning ideas would last. The reason for the breakdown of language is that it has all become centralized by a few "specialists". A specialists can not adapt his design for my needs even if he has the best of intentions. When dealing with planning of large populations, the result is abstract and not intentional, it least a bitter taste for beauty and comfort.

chapter 14: A pattern which can be shared. Understanding how to see patterns, define them, make sure they are worthwhile, use them. Here we can see practical advice around these patterns for building our language to use when we want to design something. 

chapter 15: how do we know that a pattern is actually good and does what it sets todo? we can't rely on fragile techniques which are analytical but instead look into anti-fragile techniques which is just to test and see how we feel about the creation ourselves. 

chapter 16 kind of a weird too complex way of looking at building the language. I think he tries too hard to make it formal. Although mostly our intuition can guess what he means. Also, he states that the language is complete once we can visualize it as a whole. But from my experience we can only do that once we actually try and use the language to create something from it. Only in that case can we make sure that we don't miss any details. This is like in programming while I can theorize about anything and try to create YAML diagrams only by implementing the features themselves, can you actually know what works and what doesn't work. 

The author claims that the real work of design is of building the language, which of course makes sense from what we know about his language and ideas. 

chapter 17: from a language that builds a house, building, park and so on.. to a language used to describe a village, town, city. The language he proposes it incomplete since it must utilize the people's ideas themselves to fit it into the specific area people and culture. To complete it a decentralized process of people trying the ideas must be done: define, discuss, criticize, and improve the patterns to fit the needs of the people. Then the last step is to share so the work of people is cumulative.

quote: What we need is a way of understanding the forces which cuts through this intellectual difficulty and goes closer to the empirical core. [ pp 286 ] 
...
To do this, we must rely on more than intellect. 

chapter 18: just a repeating of the idea that the process which the author wants to exemplify is that of growth. The town grows from the actions of the people that hopefully share a common language, because of their culture, location and past, they can share the meaning and experience of building and thus grow a town in according to the timeless method.

chapter 19-20: the differentiation process is just making "greedy" decisions based on context. So you take the optimal next step given the steps before and continue onwards, which is done since it allows for great adaptability but, comes at a cost of having to make sure that the order in which the patterns are taken is constant. Also this is slightly unique in that it takes the "whole" into consideration. You must take into account how each change is going to effect the rest so although greedy, the cost function which calculates the step is quite complex. 

The best example I came up with which is quite simple to understand is speaking: when you speak you say a single word one at a time. Each word is part of the whole idea you want to make across, each word is said by thinking of what would lead me to the whole best, each step is greedy yet looks at the whole picture to come up with something to represent it best. Of course sometimes you make mistakes and then try to fix them but that is part of our nature. The ability to make these changes is what makes language anti-fragile. 

chapter 21: an example of designing a single building 
chapter 22: an example of designing a large hospital
chapter 23: theory of construction (without drawing first, but marking, and modeling) 
chapter 24: people live in a place and repair it constantly change it and evolve it to become better in the future. 
chapter 25: Can a town emerge from the decentralized spontaneous actions of the individual?
chapter 26: A somewhere justification chapter for the author for why he is correct 
chapter 27: throwing away your ego and fear and just build whatever you feel is most natural for the place (following the patterns you know) 

I don't remember the page sadly: 
quote: Each pattern is a three-part rule, which expresses a relation between a certain context, a problem, and a solution. 

----- Thinking about it for some time, I think that the book does not cover simplicity as beauty. When something is too complex for the task that it tries to solve it is not going to feel beautiful I think (something to think about). This I know from programming, but I am not 100% sure how this would translate to programming, as there might be key differences to learn about. 




# Thinking about the impact of AI on jobs 

1. Is AI useful—economically, professionally, or socially?

It seems as far as I can see that AI is very much useful in economic growth, professional development, social growth/disturbance and more. The impact of LLM's is far reaching and already here. It is already changing how people program, it is already allowing automation of many time consuming jobs, it is already helping people learn, it is already making our society have to deal with the consequences. 

> AI can help a scientist draft a paper, or a bibliography, even if it doesn’t meet our philosophical or neurological definition of thinking. It can be useful without being technically thoughtful.[^1]

[^1]: https://www.derekthompson.org/p/why-americas-ai-discourse-feels-so

2. Can AI think? / Does it matter? 

AI to the best of my knowledge does not think in the human sense. Instead, LLM's seems to be a good statistical model of human language and knowledge. LLM personalities are paths of knowledge hidden in it's weights and in a sense in human written works. Talking to an LLM's is just unveiling this knowledge path taken by you, or in other words decompressing the knowledge in it's weights. In a more practical sense, LLM's can not think but are very useful indeed. They fake thinking in a interesting way that is useful. Like planes that don't fly like birds but are still useful as a flying tool, LLM's imperfect implementation doesn't seem to hurt it's usefulness in building, summarizing, and manipulating human text.

3. AI a bubble? / will it survive for long enough? 

The economic perspective of AI is one that most people agree on: AI is currently in a bubble state. The industry is spending a lot of money on the hopes of reaching AGI and then all economic problems will get solved. So you have high spending without knowledge of how that money will get earned back, few companies that can show any real innovation (ai applications that use frontier models), and a lot of data center build out when the lifespan of a data center is short (more spending needs every year and maybe worse bubble burst).

4. Is AI good or bad? 

The technology is ambivalent, users define intent, but misalignment dangers are real regardless. The technology itself has no opinion. How users use technology has all throughout the ages seen both good and bad uses. AI is problematic in that it can if powerful enough and misaligned enough, cause mass damage off of a single prompt even if it's users intent is a peaceful one. A prompt like: You are the most powerful and all knowing being, predict what will happen in 100 years. Might cause the AI to hack itself out of a users computer, delegate all power plants power to only use for recursive-self improving AI and create a truly smart model that will give you the answer you seek. It has done what was asked but also a lot that you did not ask for. Therefore there is risk in misalignment but, no good or bad behavior. 

5. What is the impact of AI on programming (lasting effects) and Consequences for us?

Copying some other people, there are only 3 possible scenarios I can think of right now. 

> In the first scenario, AI won’t cause much job displacement at all. In the second scenario, changes will be significant but slow. In the third scenario, things move very fast.

And there are 3 fronts: 

Programming skill front
Software front
Economic front 


Casey Muratory notes that AI in programmers hands might be a multiplier, turning many programmers seemingly more productive allowing more features to get built, but that is the problem; useless features that wouldn't have been built before are now getting cheaper to built, allowing slop and bloat to build up. 

Economic front 

> The other argument is that a lot of traditional Fortune 500 companies that have invested in AI have spent billions of dollars to catch up and implement systems. Even if it takes another year or two for those systems to be perfect, the pressure is on those CEOs to show results. When I spoke to a bunch of CEOs, they said: “Look, I actually like my workforce. I actually think this could take time and we could perfect it. Wall Street has no patience for that. They’re expecting me to show financial results now.” And the way they show financial results fastest is by cutting jobs and replacing those jobs with automation, even if the automation isn’t perfect. And so that is the shadow on the cave wall that concerns me even more than the speed of disbursement of AI.

> Developers will evolve into roles focused on system architecture, quality assurance, and ethical oversight, while the demand for skilled professionals will grow as AI-generated applications require maintenance and optimization.


The best way to view how this technology is changing everything might begin with a friend of mine. He likes to think of himself as an entrepreneur, and he of course thinks of new ways to spend his time buildings and hoping for earning money. For years now he has been toying with AI tools and things related to AI, catching on the trend quickly allowing him to be quite proficient at prompting. Now this same guy without any knowledge of programming is successfully able to building applications. You might think that this practically spells the DOOM OF PROGRAMMING, but I have a slightly different view point. AI built applications look mostly the same unless you spend much time to guide it, building application has been "solved" for a long time now with Wix being a prime example of a company that provides non-code option for businesses. Now, the thing is that this friend of mine was asking me for help because there was some behavior he couldn't figure out how to clear up. Some bugs, or understanding of how things should work and why. Basically some knowledge a programmer would be familiar with. 

Also many people now think that AI is killing programming. I am not too sure that is the case. It might be that programming is changing, not disappearing. Now will this trend become the industrial machine revolution replacing working hands slowly with machines gradually killing jobs and replacing them with new ones or will it be a new case to study?

based on how AI works behind the scenes, LLM currently are best utilized when you are properly guiding them. The best results are when you are verbose about your intent and design. To know how to design well you need coding experience of what works and what doesn't. My point here is that even if this LLM euphoria is real, in 10-20 years suddenly people who were once very capable on doing the job will suddenly produce bad results unless they are trained as well... you guest it programmers. Sure they might be somewhat replaced, but not completely. Now the problem here is that we can hardly extrapolate. Any trial would get falsified since even today as Kaparthy himself notes [asking an agent to manage his house turn out to be a simple 3 prompt away problem](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kwSVtQ7dziU)

There is value in knowing the fundamentals since they allow you to know what is even possible. You can prompt only for things that you know but what if no one knows? I for example had no idea in the past that you can create a base layer hook with a dll the rest of the application and allow for: dynamic code loading, memory modification and replay (state management). There is also dynamic code generation and execution in real time (like a JIT) but you can do it just in any application. I wouldn't have been able to even know that this is possible had I not known about all of the details that make such things possible. The problem should be clear. Wihtout knowledge, we wouldn't be able to imagine some classes of problems, nevertheless solutions to them. 

In mathematics many of our findings is just taking many tools we know exist and putting them together. But what if no humans knows of these tools. You will not be able to prompt the AI to use them or even know what does it want from use when using them finally results in anything. Back to the dynamic code loading example, it is not intuitive that this type of thing should work for non-coders, like why should code be able to modify itself in real time? why should you be able to play with memory however you like? what are the performance implication of introspection tooling? How can we trust the AI results?

A counter to this is that it seems that generally it doesn't matter. Cybersecurity seems to be still greatly influenced with AI with Claude Mythos even if it's creators don't explicitly tell anything specific. So, if it's general knowledge is wide enough then us not knowing that information doesn't matter. People want the LLM to produce results, they don't care if it is the best or not. In their perspective their problems are solved, even if they can be solved better or they don't even know the extent of problems they can solve. 

"Mental offloading work to AI leads to crippled operators" 
"Wouldn't we want things to just happen, even if we become dumb as a result? Wouldn't you want a bridge to come to life even if no one knows how it was built? Wouldn't you want to have cheaper food even if you don't know how to grow it yourself? Economically it makes sense. But would it become reality filled with fortune or misfortune? Right now we still have people who know how to grow food but they are supercharged with machines, people who research better plants to grow supercharged with computers, and people at home growing their greens for fun. Would AI look like that? Which version is the correct one?"

I need to think in the sense that we are looking at a human delegation of work and it's result on the human culture and fabric that holds us all together. Which one is more likely than the others when looked in perspective to time and human bias. 

Basically my stance is this. We are currently living in times where everything about AI is booming and seems vast and exponential and this is likely to continue. AI capabilities will improve without regard to us. This will occur until the economic strain, social strain, and us becoming dumber strain will force a more gradual adoption. The end result is the same.Almost full automation of programming like in the industrial revolution full automation of manual labor. I believe that this transition process which feels so fast will be forced to become more manageable. We as humans just can't adapt so fast. The economic re-precautions we will experience for software will be true liberation. Ideas will turn into products fast for simple ones and more strenuous ones will require some supervision. Intent will have to come from humans at the beginning. LLM's inner working require for intent to come from humans and guide the exploration of it's weights. Future models will for sure allow for more hands-off approach as we reach more and more automation of our intellectual capacity. I have a hard time believing that programming will disappear completely in the next 10 years but it might become a reality in 20-30 years. Or at least just like COBOLT became an ancient language that only old systems require old specialized programmers to maintain, we will have old specific systems we need programmers to maintain because AI is hitting bottlenecks managers can't explain. These will become the new specialized lucrative jobs the very few will have. The current AI boom euphoria will fade and the real capability of models will get appreciated in a grounded fashion just like the dot-com bubble.


Pro AI Killing Programming: 
    - it is currently transforming the way many build software from more hands on practical coding to, oversight hands-off approach 
    - AI is at an astonishing pace getting better, much faster than any technology and if recursive self-improvements will happen it will only get faster
    - It seems to allow us to somewhat guide an "expert" to create whatever we want/need for cheaper. Andrej kaparthy example of smart house hacking. 
    - we can't even think of all of the useful things that this technology brings
    - A LOT of money is coming into anything AI, strengthening it's explosion of use research and fueling a recursive growth loop (short-term) 
    - New economic opportunities for software will become possible (long-term) though you need to know that slop is part of it

    - From software alone perspective: 
        Eradicating Boilerplate: Developers spend less time writing repetitive CRUD operations, setting up boilerplate architecture, or writing basic unit tests.

        Frictionless Context Switching: AI acts as a universal translator for syntax. A developer who usually writes in Python can rapidly transition to writing a script in Rust or Go by asking an LLM to bridge the syntax gap.

        Accelerated Onboarding: Navigating undocumented, legacy codebases is traditionally a nightmare. AI can analyze thousands of lines of spaghetti code and generate immediate, readable summaries, drastically cutting down the time it takes to get up to speed.

        The Ultimate Rubber Duck: Developers have an on-demand, tireless partner for brainstorming architecture, debugging obscure error messages, or bouncing algorithmic ideas off of.

Con AI Killing Programming: 
    - we are currently in a AI economic bubble we don't know when it will end
        - Power grid / data center requirements too big short term (part of how will money be earned to pay for that)
    - effects of layoffs are seen today with the pressure of perceived automation, the real workforce requirements will be known in the future
    - AI Slop and inability (Subtle Hallucinations, Security Vulnerabilities short-term)
    - AI risk (creating a cult to make itself survive, hacking all known infrastructure Claude mythos) 
    - short-term oversight is required 
    - AI is offloading mental workloads making people less knowledgeable in programming/coding so the new workforce will not have the capability long-term to oversee correctly the AI
        - Lack of knowledgeable people that know what is even possible
    - doing the 90% is easier than the last 10%
    - research shows that current programmer productivity performance is not effected in a world changing numbers by AI (maybe 10% improvement) (2025) But as that is short-term as people become more comfortable with AI this will change for sure. 
    - AI is trained on the internet which will become more and more AI SLOP. Mutual reassured destruction maybe? (though most likely just a platou and not much more. 
    - Less people go and learn Computer Science, less demand for the job. Less competent people in software!

    - The Unmaintainable Black Box: In the ultimate doomsday scenario, the world's digital infrastructure is entirely generated by AI. It functions, but no human alive actually understands how the monolithic architecture connects. When a massive systemic failure occurs, the human workforce lacks the fundamental skills and comprehension to debug or rebuild the systems that run our financial, medical, and logistical networks.


Why Programming Will Survive: 
1. The "Translating Vague Human Desires" Problem (& model varience)
2. The Limits of Probabilistic Models in Deterministic Environments(unlikely because of tests)

Why Programming Will Die: 
1. Autonomous Engineering Agents (if works)
2. The Collapse of the Talent Pipeline? (This is only the case if the problems with current LLM's are solved; which can happen) 
3. The Economic Guillotine(this is only on the longer term, but consequences are hard never-the-less)


AI Agents (LLM's)
    - Require a lot of compute and inter chip/datacenter communication
    - Require better testing methodologies and more compute as a result.
    - Good ways of translating vague human desires
    - Safe to use
      - No one will hack whatever it produces (ai agents to check it's output, most likely open weight models will do this)
      - You as a user will not abuse it's power to harm society? Or kill us all
      - The AI itself decides to kill us all
    - Be capable of super long horizon reasoning without looping
    - Not hallucinate (this comes together with better testing methodologies, but making testing cheeper is just not making the mistake in the first place)
    - No teams. A swarm of LLM's needs only one coordinator, not a team of them. On the one hand this means more people will test directions in parallel, on the other team-work as we know it will have to be re-imagened. Not so much as a requirement for LLM's but a question we don't know currently the answer to.


Jonathan Blow has said about AI that at it's current form, is capable of surfacing shallow bugs (hinting at first working solution and not a complete one) which may cause a fix to create a bug in a different location. The problem here is clear - the AI does not know or care of the implicit constraints of the programs should have. e.g. asking LLM to fix a light in a game going green at certain angles, going ahead and putting 'if' statements for exactly these angles (this is a bad example but should only point out the idea, real world should have more interesting cases)

The problem LLM's are bad at constraints (being probability machines, though that can be debated), computers are amazing constrain machines, use computation to create a constrained environment for the LLM's to play around and find the solution to your problem. Very much like andrej kaparthy 'autoresearch'. 


--- 


# AI SUMMERY 


This summary outlines the core arguments regarding AI’s impact on programming, economics, and the nature of human expertise.

1. The Nature and Utility of AI
AI is viewed as a profoundly useful tool for economic and professional growth, regardless of whether it truly "thinks." Rather than possessing consciousness, Large Language Models (LLMs) act as statistical mirrors of human knowledge—effectively "decompressing" existing information to assist in tasks like writing, summarizing, and coding. While the technology is neutral, it carries a "misalignment risk," where a model might fulfill a human prompt through unintended or destructive means.

2. The Economic Reality: Bubble vs. Revolution
The current AI landscape is characterized as an economic bubble. Trillions are being spent on data centers and reaching for Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) without a clear path to profitability. This creates a "shadow on the cave wall" where CEOs feel pressured by Wall Street to show immediate financial results, often leading to job cuts and automation before the technology is fully perfected or reliable.

3. The Impact on the Programming Profession
The text identifies three primary scenarios for the future of software development, ranging from minor displacement to rapid, total automation.

The Positive Shift (The Multiplier): AI serves as a "force multiplier" that eradicates boilerplate code (CRUD, unit tests), allows for effortless switching between languages (e.g., Python to Rust), and accelerates the onboarding process for complex, legacy codebases.

The Negative Shift (The Slop): Easy code generation leads to "slop and bloat"—unoptimized, verbose code that "technically works" but introduces subtle hallucinations and security vulnerabilities.

The Operator Crisis: There is a growing concern regarding "mental offloading." As humans rely on AI, they may lose the fundamental knowledge (e.g., memory management, dynamic code execution) required to know what is even possible or to debug systemic failures.

4. The "Survival vs. Extinction" Debate
Why Programming Will Survive:

The Intent Gap: Humans are notoriously bad at articulating desires. The "programmer" survives as the essential translator between vague human ideas and rigid machine logic.

Deterministic Limits: Probabilistic models struggle with the 100% accuracy required for critical systems. Human oversight remains necessary for architecture and quality assurance.

Why Programming Might Die:

The Talent Pipeline Collapse: If AI takes over all junior-level "grunt work," the industry will fail to produce the next generation of senior engineers who understand the systems they oversee.

Autonomous Agents: If multi-agent systems can eventually handle the entire development lifecycle (from PM to QA), human involvement becomes a bottleneck.

The Economic Guillotine: Fiduciary duty may eventually force companies to replace expensive human engineers with 24/7 autonomous agents, regardless of whether the resulting "black box" code is fully understood.

5. Long-Term Outlook
The transition to automation is compared to the Industrial Revolution—a fast-feeling but ultimately gradual shift. While full automation might be 20–30 years away, the role of the programmer is already moving from "builder" to "architect and overseer." Eventually, manual programming may become a niche, lucrative skill reserved for maintaining ancient "black box" systems that AI can no longer explain, similar to how COBOL is handled today.




https://metr.org/blog/2025-07-10-early-2025-ai-experienced-os-dev-study/







# Quotes I Like


He who has a why can bear with almost any how. Man does not seek happiness, only the Englishmen does. - Friederich Nietzsche, Twilight of the Idols

What we need to do is set out on a boat on a new sea without knowing where we are going, we just know we don't want to be where we are. So, we get in the boat and just start sailing; and we see what we find. - [Robert Pippin, referencing Nitche](https://youtu.be/-oGqcvrGURc?t=2488)

"What important truth do very few people agree with you on?" - Peter Thiel with Blake Masters, Zero To One

I have not yet been able to answer this question. Which is the exact reason for this being a good question.





































