
[George Orwell, "Politics and the English Language," 1946
](https://web.archive.org/web/20050609011008/https://www.mtholyoke.edu/acad/intrel/orwell46.htm)

A scrupulous writer, in every sentence that he writes, will ask himself at least four questions, thus:
=========
1. What am I trying to say?

2. What words will express it?

3. What image or idiom will make it clearer?

4. Is this image fresh enough to have an effect?

And he will probably ask himself two more:

1. Could I put it more shortly?

2. Have I said anything that is avoidably ugly?

I think the following rules will cover most cases:
=========
1. Never use a metaphor, simile, or other figure of speech which you are used to seeing in print.

2. Never us a long word where a short one will do.

3. If it is possible to cut a word out, always cut it out.

4. Never use the passive where you can use the active.

5. Never use a foreign phrase, a scientific word, or a jargon word if you can think of an everyday English equivalent.

6. Break any of these rules sooner than say anything outright barbarous.


ver1: 

Writing is the way thoughts we have take physical form; later to be read and understood by others. To write clearly, is to remove the difficulty of understanding. A reader should not have to hack through tangled sentences, climb over unnecesary jargon, or guess the main idea. Intellegable writing has less obstacles to understanding. But, in order for such writing to exist, we need to know what obstacles he may face. But here, as writers, we are cursed. We are cursed with not knowing what it is, that we do not know. A chemist explaning about the properties of Dihydrogen monoxide expanding as it freezes, sounds more like magic being performed than science. For the chemist it is clear Dihydrogen monoxide is just _water_, but that assumption does not hold true for anyone unfamiliar with the term. The effects of the curse, making the chemist use jargon he thinks is clear, but in truth is not, is a problem all writers face. The curse is what writers assume but readers don't because writers are familiar with their thoughts, while readers are not. If you know that Dihydrogen monoxide is just water, the sentences are very much clear, if on the other hand you did not know what it was, understanding the sentence was hard for you. This is the effect you as a reader experience. The writer can not exprience the same. They have to understand everything they write about. Otherwise, why would you trust what they write about? The reader on the other hand should not understand everything they are about to read. If you know everything in a book, why read it in the first place?

ver2: 

Writing knowledge is a way of teaching. The writer puts his thoughts into paper and the students read the paper in hopes of learning from it. To write clearly can be seen as helping the student learn faster. A reader should not have to hack through tangled sentences, climb over unnecesary jargon, or guess the main idea. If he does, the teacher has failed his job. But, in order for such writing to exist, teachers need to know where their students fail. Here, as writers, we are cursed. Teachers know more, for they are passing knowledge; students know less, for they are learning; but, to know where the student will fail, a teacher must walk a road he has trodden a hundred times asking himself: "Where in the trail might others get lost?" He has forgotten what it is like not to know -- cursed indeed.

Dealing with the curse remains a different matter. I believe writing with clarity requires a sharp mind that notices when he omits what should be written, or having a fresh set of eyes point it out. And, if done well, is a step in the right direction. To take a janky mess to a polished good. From misunderstood -- to understood.



The Sense of Style by Steven Pinker

following george orwell's ideas 

writing well is being concrete and alloiwng people to see what you want them to know

using examples

visually explaining stuff , think less jargon more simple stuff

to write clearly you need to write daily.